# Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem (CVRP) Optimization

## Problem Description
This project solves the Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem (CVRP). The CVRP is an optimization challenge where a fixed number of vehicles with limited capacity must deliver goods to a set of locations. The goal is to find the best routes for these vehicles to visit all required nodes, starting and ending at the central depot, without exceeding their capacity. The ultimate objective is to minimize the total distance traveled by all vehicles combined.

In this project, I am solving the specific CVRP problem instance provided in the `data/cvrp_problem_data.json` folder.

## Prerequisites
- Python 3.14
- pip

## Instructions to Run the Code
To run the main solver and reproduce the solution for the dataset, follow these steps:

Suggestion: Create a virtual environment first: `python -m venv .venv` and then activate it: `source .venv/bin/activate`

1. Install dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`
2. Run the main script from the root of the repository:
   ```bash
   python src/main.py
   ```

## Summary of Results

The solution generated by the system is stored in the `results/solution.json` file. 

The final result obtained is:

"routes": [[0, 5, 14, 6, 10, 9, 19, 13, 4, 3, 1, 0], [0, 11, 12, 17, 8, 7, 18, 16, 15, 20, 2, 0]],
"vehicle_distances": [106, 109],
"total_distance": 215,
"vehicle_loads": [92, 98],
"success": true

*(Note: `0` represents the depot, and the other numbers represent delivery locations).*

## Key Design Decisions and Assumptions
- **Solver Choice:** I used the OR-Tools Routing Library for my solution because it is easy to use and implement while performing very well for small instances of the problem.
- **Constraints Handling:** I wrote a helper function inside utils.py to rigorously verify that all nodes were visited and capacity was respected.
- **Assumptions:** Since this project was made for a specific instance of the problem, there are some assumptions like having only two vehicles with identical capacity.